[Music]
20 year-old Lucas Dix in the Midwest
City like the look of non prescription
cosmetic contact lens he bought at a
boutique shop he didn't know they were
illegal couldn't imagine what would
happen to his eyes I just thought they
made me look good my eyes look better
the circle lenses what makes them
uniquely different is that the diameter
of these lenses are much larger than a
normal contact lens the larger the
diameter in the contact lens the less
oxygen gets to the eye and so if you're
covering up more of the eye with this
plastic that is what makes these more
detrimental the other thing too is the
recent push with Lady Gaga and the
internet and entertainment media you
know pushing to these kids to want to be
like Lady gaga
you know it's very concerning because
now they're wanting to emulate that
image and it's it's a big problem I
wearing my contacts these non
prescription colored contacts and
falling asleep for a couple hours maybe
five and usually I take them off but I
forgot to this time I should fell asleep
when I woke up my eyes were really
irritated and swollen puffy and I
immediately took the contacts out and
just it got worse and worse one point my
eye was swollen shiet the material of
these lenses that are that are made that
people are buying
again flea markets and other places
often the lens material is made offshore
pain it's not anything that is currently
used the United States for a reason it's
material that doesn't breathe as well as
a much higher risk of infection and so
when you're using the lens in that
scenario you're really not only
increasing your risk of infection
because of the the lack of knowledge of
how to use them safely but they're also
an inherently riskier lens my type and
you're just putting yourself at a lot of
risk that way they told me that the
contacts I was wearing were illegal and
I didn't even know that and they told me
I'm lucky that I got to them in time
let's take a look from there they
immediately sent me to the Dean McGee
Institute in Oklahoma City to see dr.
stone y ou is excruciatingly painful you
know it's a horrible constant senior
if I couldn't see a TIF extra vision it
was really really scary two things that
people can develop after a severe
infection like this our scarring of the
cornea and also irregular astigmatism or
warpage and distortion of the cornea and
depending on how central the scar is how
severe the warpage is sometimes they do
require a special prosthetic contact
lens to then regain any vision back and
in worst case scenario you have to
perform a corneal transplant to regain
vision or even save the I definitely
don't do it if you if you need them that
bad go looking at getting fitted contact
lenses they're a lot more safer and more
expensive but when it comes down to it
your health is a lot more important than
your looks